---
layout: post
title:      "'My coding journey!'"
date:       2020-09-14 11:45:00 -0400
permalink:  my_coding_journey
---


Wow, what a journey this has been! Now that I'm at the end of my Flatiron journey I want to reflect on this incredible experienc and how coding has changed me as a woman. I started this program in Aug 2019. I found some ads about the school when I was randomly scrolling down my instagram TL. I had been trying to figure out what I wanted to do with my life before I saw the ads. I had no clue, so I decided to see what all the fuss was about. I did someone of the prereq assignments and thought hey I could do this....maybe. I got in contact with the school and a recruiter told me I needed to finish more of the assignments to be considered. So I got up early each day and completed as much as I could before the deadline she gave me. The recruiter was impressed with my determination and the progress that I made...I later found out I was accepted. I was over the moon. Finally, something that can give me long term stability. I had no idea how I was going to complete this course because of the numerous outside responsibilities I had. I was newly divorced, working full time and a single mom. How was I going to find time to fit school into my life? 

After reflecting on my lack of time I decided I was going to do whatever it took to complete this course....what other option did I have? I didn't. I needed to make this work...no matter what. When I built my first project I was so shocked that I did it ! It was a basic CLI app but what I didn't realize then was that completing that project would ignite a fire in my heart for coding. I was so excited over something to many would be amatuer. I felt like I knocked down a mountain when I completed it. It was an incredible feeling to not only finish but to also pass my assessment for it. Months went by and I was getting better. Life was great! I was actually understanding the material way better than I thought I would. I have no previous experience, so this is completely new to me. I was loving the fact I was pushing myself to be better every day. Every new thing I grasped made me stronger and feel more intelligent. Which is such a boost in confidance for me. 

Fast forward to our Ruby On Rails app...I was sure I was going to fail. I was halfway through the program and I just wasn't getting it. I turned my project in late and was sure I had ruined everything I had worked so hard for and not only that...my assessment was on my birthday. I reviewed as best I could  till my assessment. I wasn't feeling confident at all...really dampered my spirits but I didn't quit. I told myself even if I fail today everything you have done wasn't a waste. YOU ARE CAPABLE. After my little pep talk I went into my assessment. I stumbled my way through it but eventually was able to finish my live coding challenge. I was super concerned to hear that I would have to rollback on my birthday...but moments later....my accessor told me I passed!! I couldn't believe it! I was still in the race! Best birthday present ever! 
Having that experience made me realize that I need to not be so hard on myself. I'm still learning, but I am more than capable fo being a software engineer as long as I put my mind and whole heart into it! I told myself I would remember this feeling for next time....remember the hopelessness I felt but also the drive I felt to do my best. It's really important that I remember to trust myself to succeed.

I took a long 2 weeks of break to decompress before grinding into the Javascript module...I'm so glad I did. It's important to rest so you don't burn out. Unfortunately this is when my journey almost fell apart..

Right when I was going to go all in to JS, covid-19 hit. My mind could not process what was going on! I was scared. I had a routine....and then all of a sudden my world was flipped upside down. I lost my job...my child was now at home with me more than usual...I couldn't see my family....I was alone. I got depressed and it showed in my work ethic. Having my child with me more... meant more distractions. Not working and my bills still needing to be paid meant more stress. I wanted to give up. I couldn't see how I was going to claw out of this mess. I continued to learn JS but I could tell this was going to be tough. On top of that I couldnt get a lot of my code to work because of some browser issues. 

The 6 weeks is up and it was now project week. I was having so many browser issues still. I knew this was going to be it for me. My teacher advised me that I should rollback but I didn't want to. I'm  a fighter and I worked so hard to be here. I didn't want to give up. I had one more week left to get something up and running...eventually I had to realize it just wasn't going to happen. This was a hard blow for me. I thought I failed not only myself but my child. It was a hard pill to swallow. Accepting defeat is no easy task. I had to really sit down with myself and remind myself that this wasn't the end. That rolling back is going to give me more time to learn and overall make me a better developer. After marinating with that thought, I was feeling a lot better with myself. I knew that the 2nd time around I would blow this section out of the water...and that's exactly what I did.

I was now in a new cohort with some of the best people I have ever met in my life! They were so accepting and I actually was engaging more in class! I have now found people I can geninuely connect with! This new feeling of being accepted really changed my attitude. I was less stressed and ready to conquer! I stayed up later, wrote more notes on paper, asked more questions, took every JS quiz I could find online and ultimately knew I was going to pass this time around! That's exactly what I did! The hardest module at Flatiron and I passed when many people quit the program completely at this stage! It was at this moment I knew this is where I belong. I'm destined to be a software engineer. 

I'm so grateful for all the support I've had thus far. Coding has showed me how strong I am. That anything I set my mind to I will achieve. Coding has taught me to embrace failure. Failure is just an opportunity to get better...it's not the end. Sometimes our path doesn't go the way we want but that just means it's not the right time in your journey and that's ok. Had I not rolled back I wouldn't have the support system I do now and I'm truly thankful for that. 

Even though I will be graduating soon and leaving Flatiron my coding journey is not over. I will constantly strive to be better and learn more technologies. I will remember the feelings I felt while busting through this program to remind myself to take each new experience with open arms. Thank you Flatiron for making me a better me! 
